README.md, before:

# SocketAce

**Your ultimate connection proxy.** websocket proxy. secure sockets proxy.

Ever had an issue with restrictive firewalls? Well, this tool will help out. This tool
allows you to proxy *multiple* connections through:
- sockets
- TLS-encrypted sockets (direct replacement for [stunnel](https://www.stunnel.org/))
- websockets
- TLS-encrypted websockets

## Contents

1. [Rationale](#rationale)
1. [Installation](#installation)
    1. [Install using docker](#install-using-docker)
    1. [Install using brew](#install-using-brew)
    1. [Install on Linux using a package manager](#install-on-linux-using-a-package-manager)
    1. [Manual install](#manual-install)
1. [Usage](#usage)
    1. [Name](#name)
    1. [Synopsis](#synopsis)
    1. [Description](#description)
    1. [Examples](#examples)
    1. [See also](#see-also)
1. [TO-DO](#to-do)

## Rationale

There are several use cases where SocektAce might come in handy:

- **Encrypting connections** If your protocol does not support encryption, you can simply
  wrap the connection with SocketAce and pass it over the Internet. 

- **Restrictive firewalls** Sometimes you might find yourself behind a quite restrictive 
  firewall. The firewall might:
  - let through only specific ports (80, 443)
  - use deep packet inspection and block non-HTTP / non-HTTPs traffic
  
- **Expose Unix sockets as TCP streams** If your service is only available as a Unix socket,
  you can use SocketAce to expose it on a host and access it from other (even Windows) servers
  
## Installation

This software uses [goreleaser](https://goreleaser.com/) and [buildx](https://docs.docker.com/buildx/working-with-buildx/)
to create software distribution. There are several ways to install it:

### Install using docker

The simplest way to use SOCKETACE is by referencing a pre-build [docker image](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/boky/socketace), 
e.g.

```shell script
docker run --rm -it boky/socketace
```

### Install using brew

```shell script
brew tap bokysan/socketace https://github.com/bokysan/socketace-brew.git
brew install socketace
```

### Install on Linux using a package manager

The build system provides RPM, DEB and APK packages:

1. Go to [Releases](https://github.com/bokysan/socketace/releases) page.
2. Download the version appropriate for your system.
3. Execute install for your distribution, e.g. `dpkg -i <package>.deb`


### Manual install

To install manually:

1. Go to [Releases](https://github.com/bokysan/socketace/releases) page.
2. Download the version appropriate for your system into `$HOME/bin` or similar.


  
## Usage

### Name

**socketace** - A tool for tunneling connections over the internet
    
### Synopsis

For the server:

```
socketace server 
    [--help] 
    [-v[v[v[v[v[v]]]]]]
    [-c|--config <yaml-config-file>]
    [-l|--log-file <log-file>]
    [-f|--log-format text|json]
    [-C|--log-color yes|no|true|false|auto]
    [--log-full-timestamp]
    [--log-report-caller]
```

For the client:
```
socketace client
    [--help] 
    [-v[v[v[v[v[v]]]]]]
    [-c|--config <yaml-config-file>]
    [-l|--log-file <log-file>]
    [-f|--log-format text|json]
    [-C|--log-color yes|no|true|false|auto]
    [--log-full-timestamp]
    [--log-report-caller]
    [--ca-certificate <string> | --ca-certificate-file=<file>]
    [--certificate <string> | --certificate-file=<file>]
    [--private-key <string> | --private-key-file=<file>]
    [--private-key-password <string> | --private-key-password-program=<string>]
    [-k|--insecure]
    [-l|--listen <string>]...
    [-u|--upstream <string>...
```

### Description

SocketAce can proxy multiple protocol across a single connection. You need to pick the
right protocol when setting up a connection on the client.

#### Server

The server can listen on multiple ports / protocols at the same time. To configure
the server, you need to set up:
- [Upstreams](#channels-upstreams)
- [Severs](#servers)

##### Channels (upstreams)

Upstreams are configured in the YAML `upstreams` section. They define the external services
that will be accessible through this server setup.

```yaml
server:
  channels:
    - name: <service-name>
      network: <network>
      address: <address>
    ...
```

You may define multiple channels (upstreams). Each cannel needs the following properties:

- `name` is the unique name given to this upstream server. This is then referenced later
  on in the `servers` section and on the client. A good example would be `ssh`, `web`, `oracle` etc.
- `network` is the protocol used to connect to the backend. Possible options are: `tcp` for Internet,
  and `unix` and `unixgram` for unix sockets.
- `address` is the address of the upstream. For `tcp` this is the host and the port, e.g. `127.0.0.1:22`,
  `www.google.com:80` or ˙[::1]:8080`. For unix sockets, this is the path to the socket.
 
##### Servers
 
At this stage, the following `kinds` (protocols) are supported: `websocket`, `tcp`, `stdin` and `unix`. 
To configure the server, add it to the `servers` section of the configuration.

```yaml
server:
  servers:
    - kind: <kind>
      [listen: <address>]
      [
      endpoints:
        - endpoint: <url-part>
        ...
      ]
      [channels: [list of channels]]
      [caCertificate: <ca-certificate>]
      [caCertificateFile: <ca-file>]
      [certificate: <certificate>]
      [certificateFile: <certificate-file>]
      [privateKey: <private-key>]
      [privateKeyFile: <private-key-file>]
      [privateKeyPassword: <private-key-password>]
      [privateKeyPasswordProgram: <private-key-password-program>]
```

Where:

- `kind` is the type of server to run. Can be `websocket`, `tcp`, `stdin` and `unix`.
  - All services other than `stdin` require the listening configuration
  - `stdin` listens on stdin/stdout. As expected, only one `stdin` server can be configured. This allows you to
    use SocketAce via `ssh` (like [rsync](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rsync) over `ssh`) or any other service
    that can stream standard input and output
- `endpoints` is only required or `websocket` server. It defines the list of URLs the server should listen to.
  For example `/ws/all` or `/my/secret/connection`. You may listen on multiple URLs.
- `channels` defines a list of upstream channels that this connection proxies. If not defined, all channels are 
  proxied.
- `caCertificate` or `caCertificateFile` may be defined if you want to use mutual (client and server) certificate
  authentication. When defined, the server will accept client connections only if signed by the given CA certificate. 
- `certificate` or `certificateFile` is server's certificate. When defined, the server automatically switches to
  TLS connection. Applicable for all server kinds. 
- `privateKey`, `privateKeyFile`, `privateKeyPassword` and `privateKeyPasswordProgram` should be pretty 
  self-explanatory. They must be defined when `certificate` is set up. 

#### Client

Client configuration is a bit simple and can be done via a config file or via a command line. Basically, only
two options are important:

- `--upstream <url>` may be specified multiple times. Defines a list of upstream servers that the client will 
  try to connect to. The format is `<protocol>[://<host|path>]`. Protocol may be any of the following: `tcp`, 
  `tcp+tls`, `stdin`, `stdin+tls`, `unix`, `unix+tls`, `http`, `https`. Examples:
  - `tcp://127.0.0.1:9995` to connect to a socket server on `localhost` on `9995` 
  - `tcp+tls://127.0.0.1:9995` to connect to a TLS-encrypted socket server on `localhost` on `9995` 
  - `stdin` to connect to server through standard input / output
- `--listen <channel>~<listen-url>[~<forward-url>]` will open a listening socket on the client. 
  - `channel` name must be the same as defined on the server. 
  - `listen-url` is the protocol and the host/path to listen on. Protocol may be `tcp`, `unix` and `stdin` 
  - `foward-url` is the optional direct address of the service. If specified, the client will try to connect
    to this service directly first and, failing that, start going through upstream services.

 
### Examples

#### Server setup

The easiest way to setup a server is with a YAML file. The `examples` directory contains a configuration which
provides different server setups.

#### Client setup

##### Use socketace as a simple telnet client  

```sh
socketace -k --upstream tcp+tls://server.example.com:80 --upstream https://server.example.com/proxy --listen smtp~stdin
```

##### Use socketace to SSH to your server from anywhere

```sh
ssh localhost -o ProxyCommand='socketace --upstream http://127.0.0.1:9999/ws/all --listen ssh~stdin'
```

##### Use socketace to proxy IMAP and SMTP

```sh
socketace -e tcp+tls://server.example.com:80 --listen imap~127.0.0.1:143 --listen imap~127.0.0.2:587
```

## TO-DO

There's still some things to be done. If anybody's willing to pick up issues, pull
requests are welcome:
- add proxying of UDP connections
- add functionality similar to [sslh](https://github.com/yrutschle/sslh) to be able to
  "hide" the proxy and share the port with other services
- add the possibility of proxying connections through DNS, similar to [iodine](https://github.com/yarrick/iodine)
  works

Commit message:

Initial commit of version 2.0
This version is a large refactoring of code and changes in the protocol:
- **Support to start TLS over plain connections.** The protocol now does
  a two-step handshake and support `StartTLS`. This means you can run the
  service over a plain-text HTTP server while still preserving security.
  This also means that configuration had to be changed a bit.
- **Logical connection multiplexing.** Multiple connections are now
  multiplexed over a single physical connection. The client will establish
  *only one* physical connection and drive all logical connections through
  it.
- **Support for TLS / StartTLS connections on standard input / output**.
  It is now possible to secure piped standard input/output with TLS and/or
  `StartTLS`. Caveats: Stdin cannot determine "server name" and certificate
  matching will be disabled. You will need to make sure yourself you are
  connecting to a secure endpoint.

These changes are *breaking* and as such socketace 2.0 will not work with
socketace 1.0. As there are not a lot of users of socketace 1.0, not much
has been invested into backwards compatibility. Users are suggested to
upgrade to socketace 2.0.

This commit also sees some of the code covered by tests.

README.md, after:

# SocketAce

**Your ultimate connection tunnel.** TCP websocket tunnel. TLS sockets tunnel. One executable for the client and the
server. Multiple platforms supported. Written in [go](https://golang.org).

Ever had an issue with restrictive firewalls? Well, this tool will help out. Socketace allows you to tunnel *multiple* 
connections through:
- sockets
- TLS-encrypted sockets (direct replacement for [stunnel](https://www.stunnel.org/))
- websockets
- TLS-encrypted websockets

Socketace is mainly meant for restricted environments where the firewall won't allow you to open an SSH connection or
even won't allow any other traffic other than on port 80 and 443. Socketace is also able to tunnel the connection
through HTTP (websockets) so even firewalls that do deep packet inspection / proxy ports 80 and 443 should work fine.

Unlike other solutions which use [`HTTP CONNECT`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/CONNECT) to
establish connection, `socketace` will actually overlay the TCP over HTTP.

**DISCLAIMER:** Please note that you are using socketace at your own risk.

## Contents

1. [Rationale](#rationale)
1. [Installation](#installation)
    1. [Install using docker](#install-using-docker)
    1. [Install using brew](#install-using-brew)
    1. [Install on Linux using a package manager](#install-on-linux-using-a-package-manager)
    1. [Manual install](#manual-install)
1. [Usage](#usage)
    1. [Name](#name)
    1. [Synopsis](#synopsis)
    1. [Description](#description)
    1. [Examples](#examples)
    1. [See also](#see-also)
1. [TO-DO](#to-do)

## Rationale

There are several use cases where SocektAce might come in handy:

- **Encrypting connections** If your protocol does not support encryption, you can simply
  wrap the connection with SocketAce and pass it over the Internet. 

- **Restrictive firewalls** Sometimes you might find yourself behind a quite restrictive 
  firewall. The firewall might:
  - let through only specific ports (80, 443)
  - use deep packet inspection and block non-HTTP / non-HTTPs traffic
  
- **Expose Unix sockets as TCP streams** If your service is only available as a Unix socket,
  you can use SocketAce to expose it on a host and access it from other (even Windows) servers
  
## Installation

This software uses [goreleaser](https://goreleaser.com/) and [buildx](https://docs.docker.com/buildx/working-with-buildx/)
to create software distribution. There are several ways to install it:

### Install using docker

The simplest way to use SOCKETACE is by referencing a pre-build [docker image](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/boky/socketace), 
e.g.

```shell script
docker run --rm -it boky/socketace
```

### Install using brew

```shell script
brew tap bokysan/socketace https://github.com/bokysan/socketace-brew.git
brew install socketace
```

### Install on Linux using a package manager

The build system provides RPM, DEB and APK packages:

1. Go to [Releases](https://github.com/bokysan/socketace/releases) page.
2. Download the version appropriate for your system.
3. Execute install for your distribution, e.g. `dpkg -i <package>.deb`


### Manual install

To install manually:

1. Go to [Releases](https://github.com/bokysan/socketace/releases) page.
2. Download the version appropriate for your system into `$HOME/bin` or similar.


  
## Usage

### Name

**socketace** - A tool for tunneling connections over the internet
    
### Synopsis

For the server:

```
socketace server 
    [--help] 
    [-v[v[v[v[v[v]]]]]]
    [-c|--config <yaml-config-file>]
    [-l|--log-file <log-file>]
    [-f|--log-format text|json]
    [-C|--log-color yes|no|true|false|auto]
    [--log-full-timestamp]
    [--log-report-caller]
```

For the client:
```
socketace client
    [--help] 
    [-v[v[v[v[v[v]]]]]]
    [-c|--config <yaml-config-file>]
    [-l|--log-file <log-file>]
    [-f|--log-format text|json]
    [-C|--log-color yes|no|true|false|auto]
    [--log-full-timestamp]
    [--log-report-caller]
    [--ca-certificate <string> | --ca-certificate-file=<file>]
    [--certificate <string> | --certificate-file=<file>]
    [--private-key <string> | --private-key-file=<file>]
    [--private-key-password <string> | --private-key-password-program=<string>]
    [-k|--insecure]
    [-l|--listen <string>]...
    [-u|--upstream <string>...
```

### Description

SocketAce can proxy multiple protocol across a single connection. You need to pick the
right protocol when setting up a connection on the client.

#### Server

The server can listen on multiple ports / protocols at the same time. To configure
the server, you need to set up:
- [Upstreams](#channels-upstreams)
- [Severs](#servers)

##### Channels (upstreams)

Upstreams are configured in the YAML `upstreams` section. They define the external services
that will be accessible through this server setup.

```yaml
server:
  channels:
    - name: <service-name>
      network: <network>
      address: <address>
    ...
```

You may define multiple channels (upstreams). Each cannel needs the following properties:

- `name` is the unique name given to this upstream server. This is then referenced later
  on in the `servers` section and on the client. A good example would be `ssh`, `web`, `oracle` etc.
- `network` is the protocol used to connect to the backend. Possible options are: `tcp` for Internet,
  and `unix` and `unixgram` for unix sockets.
- `address` is the address of the upstream. For `tcp` this is the host and the port, e.g. `127.0.0.1:22`,
  `www.google.com:80` or ˙[::1]:8080`. For unix sockets, this is the path to the socket.
 
##### Servers
 
At this stage, the following `kinds` (protocols) are supported: `websocket`, `tcp`, `stdin` and `unix`. 
To configure the server, add it to the `servers` section of the configuration.

```yaml
server:
  servers:
    - kind: <kind>
      [listen: <address>]
      [
      endpoints:
        - endpoint: <url-part>
        ...
      ]
      [channels: [list of channels]]
      [caCertificate: <ca-certificate>]
      [caCertificateFile: <ca-file>]
      [certificate: <certificate>]
      [certificateFile: <certificate-file>]
      [privateKey: <private-key>]
      [privateKeyFile: <private-key-file>]
      [privateKeyPassword: <private-key-password>]
      [privateKeyPasswordProgram: <private-key-password-program>]
```

Where:

- `kind` is the type of server to run. Can be `websocket`, `tcp`, `stdin` and `unix`.
  - All services other than `stdin` require the listening configuration
  - `stdin` listens on stdin/stdout. As expected, only one `stdin` server can be configured. This allows you to
    use SocketAce via `ssh` (like [rsync](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rsync) over `ssh`) or any other service
    that can stream standard input and output
- `endpoints` is only required or `websocket` server. It defines the list of URLs the server should listen to.
  For example `/ws/all` or `/my/secret/connection`. You may listen on multiple URLs.
- `channels` defines a list of upstream channels that this connection proxies. If not defined, all channels are 
  proxied.
- `caCertificate` or `caCertificateFile` may be defined if you want to use mutual (client and server) certificate
  authentication. When defined, the server will accept client connections only if signed by the given CA certificate. 
- `certificate` or `certificateFile` is server's certificate. When defined, the server automatically switches to
  TLS connection. Applicable for all server kinds. 
- `privateKey`, `privateKeyFile`, `privateKeyPassword` and `privateKeyPasswordProgram` should be pretty 
  self-explanatory. They must be defined when `certificate` is set up. 

#### Client

Client configuration is a bit simple and can be done via a config file or via a command line. Basically, only
two options are important:

- `--upstream <url>` may be specified multiple times. Defines a list of upstream servers that the client will 
  try to connect to. The format is `<protocol>[://<host|path>]`. Protocol may be any of the following: `tcp`, 
  `tcp+tls`, `stdin`, `stdin+tls`, `unix`, `unix+tls`, `http`, `https`. Examples:
  - `tcp://127.0.0.1:9995` to connect to a socket server on `localhost` on `9995` 
  - `tcp+tls://127.0.0.1:9995` to connect to a TLS-encrypted socket server on `localhost` on `9995` 
  - `stdin` to connect to server through standard input / output
- `--listen <channel>~<listen-url>[~<forward-url>]` will open a listening socket on the client. 
  - `channel` name must be the same as defined on the server. 
  - `listen-url` is the protocol and the host/path to listen on. Protocol may be `tcp`, `unix` and `stdin` 
  - `foward-url` is the optional direct address of the service. If specified, the client will try to connect
    to this service directly first and, failing that, start going through upstream services.

 
### Examples

#### Server setup

The easiest way to setup a server is with a YAML file. The `examples` directory contains a configuration which
provides different server setups.

#### Client setup

##### Use socketace as a simple telnet client  

```sh
socketace -k --upstream tcp+tls://server.example.com:80 --upstream https://server.example.com/proxy --listen smtp~stdin
```

##### Use socketace to SSH to your server from anywhere

```sh
ssh localhost -o ProxyCommand='socketace --upstream http://127.0.0.1:9999/ws/all --listen ssh~stdin'
```

##### Use socketace to proxy IMAP and SMTP

```sh
socketace -e tcp+tls://server.example.com:80 --listen imap~127.0.0.1:143 --listen imap~127.0.0.2:587
```

## TO-DO

There's still some things to be done. If anybody's willing to pick up issues, pull
requests are welcome:
- add proxying of UDP connections
- add functionality similar to [sslh](https://github.com/yrutschle/sslh) to be able to
  "hide" the proxy and share the port with other services
- add the possibility of proxying connections through DNS, similar to how 
  [iodine](https://github.com/yarrick/iodine) works 
  
## Similar projects

There's [Chisel](https://github.com/jpillora/chisel) which tries to achieve about the same goal
but goes about it in a bit of a diffrent way.
